README.md, before:

# aQC studies

## Content

### Files
1. **runList.txt** contains the path of the QC objects that need to be analyzed. The path to put is the one found in the mail [QA] Daily report from MonALISA

### Macros
1. **QC_readFiles.C** reads the QC file downloaded by the *download-QC-from-grid.py* script and saves a simple root file with the histograms of local board occupancy and 44/all tracks efficiency for a selected run. It saves also the png of these histograms in the images folder. It needs in input the period, the apass, and the run number, passed as strings, e.g. *QC_readfiles.C("LHC23zd", "apass4", "538932")*. It can be executed by the script *runReady.py*

2. **QC_Comparison.C** reads the root files produced by QC_readFile.C macro and obtain the ratios of histograms from apass4 and apass1. It saves the png of these ratios in the folder ratio-images. It needs in input the period and the run number, passes as strings, e.g. *QC_comparison.C("LHC23zd", "538932")*. It can be executed by the script *runComparison.py*

### Scripts
1. **download-QC-from-grid.py** downloads the QC_fullrun.root files from the grid whose path is listed in *runList.txt* file. Run it using *python3 download-QC-from-grid.py*
2. **runRead.py** is a script that runs *QC_readFiles.C* macro for all the runs listed in *runList.txt* file. Run it using *python3 runRead.py*
3. **runComparison.py** is a script that runs *QC_comparions.C* for all the runs listed in *runList.txt* file. Run it using *python3 runComparison.py*.

### Workflow
The scripts **need** to be run in the following order because each of them takes as input the output of the previos:
1. download-QC-from-grid.py
2. runRead.py
3. runComparison.py

Commit message:

Add macro to create list of checked runs for the minutes

README.md, after:

# aQC studies

## Content

### Files
1. **runList.txt** contains the path of the QC objects that need to be analyzed. The path to put is the one found in the mail [QA] Daily report from MonALISA

### Macros
1. **QC_readFiles.C** reads the QC file downloaded by the *download-QC-from-grid.py* script and saves a simple root file with the histograms of local board occupancy and 44/all tracks efficiency for a selected run. It saves also the png of these histograms in the images folder. It needs in input the period, the apass, and the run number, passed as strings, e.g. *QC_readfiles.C("LHC23zd", "apass4", "538932")*. It can be executed by the script *runReady.py*

2. **QC_Comparison.C** reads the root files produced by QC_readFile.C macro and obtain the ratios of histograms from apass4 and apass1. It saves the png of these ratios in the folder ratio-images. It needs in input the period and the run number, passes as strings, e.g. *QC_comparison.C("LHC23zd", "538932")*. It can be executed by the script *runComparison.py*

### Scripts
1. **download-QC-from-grid.py** downloads the QC_fullrun.root files from the grid whose path is listed in *runList.txt* file. Run it using *python3 download-QC-from-grid.py*
2. **runRead.py** is a script that runs *QC_readFiles.C* macro for all the runs listed in *runList.txt* file. Run it using *python3 runRead.py*
3. **runComparison.py** is a script that runs *QC_comparions.C* for all the runs listed in *runList.txt* file. Run it using *python3 runComparison.py*.
4. **writeAnalyzedRuns.py** read a txt file with the runs that have been analyzed: to create this file copy the runs fro the *QA - Daily report mail*. Periods need to be separated by a blank line. The file needs to start with a black line. The output file *out.txt* contains the list of analyzed runs in each period.

### Workflow
The scripts **need** to be run in the following order because each of them takes as input the output of the previos:
1. download-QC-from-grid.py
2. runRead.py
3. runComparison.py
